# Room Host Guidelines

## TL;DR

* Being a room-host is an active role that has a high impact on the quality of
  the conference and the appreciation of the attendees and speakers in each
session.

* There is no TL;DR excuse accepted. Please read the entire document to be a
  good room host.

## Description of the role

The room host is in charge of helping the speakers to worry only about their
presentation and to make it clear to the audience when the presentation starts,
when they can ask questions, when it is over, and what is coming next.

Please keep in mind each conference, venue and every speaker is different, which
means your task and duties may vary slightly. As a room host you need to be
flexible, adaptable and comfortable in your interactions.

## Before the conference

If you are unsure how to take good pictures in not ideal light conditions,
here are a couple resources:

* [Event Photography: How to Photograph a Speaker on Stage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mGAB-kQRDBI)
* [Event Photography Rules of Composition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QvRm9nqNTBs)

The situation in a conference room is usually that the screen shows a bright
backlight and the speaker stands in front of it. That will cast shadows on the
speakers face. These videos will help you to learn how to improve taking
pictures of speakers.

## Getting ready

Collect a bag with items you need while being a room host from the organisers:

* Time tracker cards (15, 10, 5, stop, etc on them)

* Adapters for streaming audio/video from USB-C or DP to HDMI for example should you need it

* Clicker/slide forwarder (connects via USB) in case the speaker doesn’t have
  one

* Get water for the speaker (bottled, or a carafe and glasses)

## Before the presentation

* The room host must be in the room before the speaker arrives to welcome them

* If you are co-hosting the room with another person, settle down for 
  each one's duties. One can introduce the speaker, and the other takes care
  of bringing the microphone to the people who ask questions, for example.

* Make sure the water bottle or glass is fresh, and filled

* Check the connection from the laptop to the projector

* Check that the clicker to switch slides works correctly

* Check the batteries of the microphone(s)

* Ask the speaker if you can take a picture

    - Ask the speaker if it's ok to publish the picture on social media

    - Best way to do that is before the talk starts, with the talk into
      slide also in the picture

    - Use the conference system to compose a social media message, include
      the name of the speaker, the talk, and useful hashtags. If you can't
      do that, send the picture to other volunteers, or the orga team.

* If the session is recorded, make sure the speaker has agreed to the recording

    - There is usually a sheet with all sessions and a note if they are recorded
      or not

    - Ask the speaker to repeat questions (in their own words), this ensures
      that the question is audible in the recording, and it gives the speaker
      a few seconds to think about the question and a possible answer

* If possible, have a second microphone ready for questions from the audience

* Help the speaker to set up the microphone

* Each speaker is individual and therefore you should:

    - Clarify with the speaker when they want to take questions, during or at
      the end (we recommend at the end to manage the time better)

    - Ask the speaker if they need the time cue cards (some speaker have a good)
      control of their timing, or use a timer on their laptop
  
    - Explain where you will be sitting down and when you will show the 'time
      tracker' boards. (Remaining time to be to the end of the overall session
      (usually the case) or early to leave time for questions)

    - Ask if the speaker would like you to introduce them once everything is
      ready

* Thank the audience, introduce the speaker, then start clapping / ask for an
  applause

### IMPORTANT:

Avoid reading the first slide: "this is... euh... Simon Riggs, and he will be
talking about... hmm...  The Next 20 Years..." Everybody can read
that first slide, so try to care a bit more and learn the name of the speaker,
and something that resembles the title. Or at least that no one sees you
reading.

### OPTIONAL:

Ask the speaker in advance a fun fact that could be shared during the
introduction. Something like a favourite book, film, sport, hobby, country of
origin, anything. The speakers usually have a slide with their technical
profile, hence, explaining something extra will be an added value. In addition,
if the speaker for instance plays guitar, and someone in the audience also plays
guitar, it immediately creates a connection and the person starts listening more
actively.

## During the presentation

* Pay attention to the talk.

* If the speaker allows questions during the talk, be prepared to bring the
  microphone to the person asking. This is especially important for recordings,
  as otherwise the question is not on the audio track.

* If no one asks a question, it is good that you ask one. You can also ask the
  speaker if he has one he would like you to use. Always have a question ready
  for the end. Even if it is just a clarification of something shown during the
  presentation.

* Keep track of the time and remind the speaker how much time is left using the
  “time tracker” cue cards.

* Take care of closing the room doors when people get into the room after the
  talk has started. This can be handled better when more than one person hosts
  the room.

## End of the presentation

* If the speaker doesn't show any sign of finishing in the agreed time: stand up
  and make yourself visible to the speaker, so that they know time is up.

* If the speaker manages time well, start clapping when they finish, especially
  if no one does, and stand up if appropriate.

* Thank the speaker and look for rising hands in the audience for questions

    - If the speaker is calling on the people with questions. Just be ready with
      the microphone if you need one (larger rooms).

    - If the speaker is just waiting there, it is your role to manage who asks
      the questions.

    - If no one asks a question, you should ask one. Sometimes this simple act
      triggers other people asking more questions.

* Be mindful about the time. Don't let the round of questions go beyond the
  scheduled time.

* Make sure that attendees don't ask too long questions, or questions which do
  not fit the topic of the talk. Don't hesitate to cut the person short, and
  give other people a chance to ask questions. Remember that it's you who
  controls the room.

* After the questions are over (or if there is no more time), remind the audience
  about giving feedback to the talk/speaker from the app/website if applicable.
  
* In the end tell the audience what is coming next (next presentation, coffee break
  or lunch, etc), and close the session asking for another applause for the speaker.

* Help the speaker uninstall everything and make sure no one forgets anything.

Make sure you collect all the items after each talk (sometimes speakers take
things by accident) and once your shift is over, take the bag back to the place
you collected it from.

## Difficult tasks you must be comfortable with

* Don't let the speaker run beyond the time scheduled for their talk.

* Don't let a member of the audience monopolise the round of questions. If you
  see someone asking one question after the other, say something like: "I see
  other hands rising, so let's allow other members of the audience to ask their
  questions… Slonik, please, you go next".
